{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 field experimental design for groups versus individual genotype g2p maps\
\
This experiment was designed to test whether planting similar genotypes in families next to others of the same genotype mattered for both mean and range genetic contributions to phenotype values.  There is theory and prior data that suggest that neighbors can matter for plant growth.  The experimental design was not perfect, as the plots were on one side of the block and the individual plants were on the other side (ideally they\'92d have been randomized across the field).  \
\
We want to determine which genetic features are important to explain variation in each measured phenotype (one phenotype at a time).  We are interested in genetic contribution to both mean y and range of y, so we will use vQTL analysis.  \
\
We should consider how we will visualize these, too.  We will want graphic displays that highlight the \'91environment\'92 difference between family and individual plantings. Some of the past work in the lab has used novel metrics, e.g. the Makumburage G3 paper.\
\
To make tidy data for this analysis (see http://vita.had.co.nz/papers/tidy-data.pdf for more about tidy data):\
\
Remove the \'91bad\'92 genotypes (these seeds failed the forensic quality control analysis, like the one that Lauren Privitera is doing).  Bad genotypes are Mo062, Mo075, and Mo066.  \
\
Check for outliers, and ask Ann about them if you find any.\
\
Decide how to handle the two separate sections of the field data (which are currently in two separate cvs files with different headers). \
\
Arrange the cvs files for import into the R package. \
\
}